docs: document model/auth settings, /model --vision, and --safe-mode (#6028)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/users/configuration/settings.md

| `model.baseUrl`                                    | string  | Base URL paired with `model.name`; disambiguates which provider to use when multiple `modelProviders` entries share the same model id.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `undefined` |

> | `model.sessionTokenLimit`                          | number  | Maximum number of tokens allowed in a session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `undefined` |

Author: Fixed in 036f597. Verified against the code: `packages/core/src/config/config.ts` sets `this.sessionTokenLimit = params.sessionTokenLimit ?? -1`, so the effective default is `-1`, not `undefined`. And in `packages/core/src/core/client.ts`, when `lastPromptTokenCount > sessionTokenLimit` (only checked when `limit > 0`) it yields `SessionTokenLimitExceeded` and returns the current `Turn` early — the send is dropped, the session is not aborted. Updated the row to default `-1` and the description to: "Maximum prompt token count allowed per send in a session. `-1` means unlimited. When exceeded, the current send is dropped (the session is not aborted)."

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

| `model.name`                                       | string  | The Qwen model to use for conversations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `undefined` |

> | `model.baseUrl`                                    | string  | Base URL paired with `model.name`; disambiguates which provider to use when multiple `modelProviders` entries share the same model id.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `undefined` |

Author: Fixed in 63d7a97. Verified against the code: `packages/cli/src/utils/modelConfigUtils.ts` (lines ~297–327) writes `settings.model.baseUrl` in the same scope as `model.name` as a disambiguator, and it has fallback/`disambiguationWarning` logic when a persisted value no longer matches any provider — a stale hand-edited value silently routes to a different same-id provider. Reworded the row to describe `model.baseUrl` as picker-managed and not intended to be set by hand, pointing users to the `/model` picker or `modelProviders` instead.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> | `model.sessionTokenLimit`                          | number  | Maximum prompt token count allowed per send in a session. `-1` means unlimited. When exceeded, the current send is dropped (the session is not aborted).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `-1`        |

Author: Fixed in 63d7a97. Confirmed against `packages/core/src/core/client.ts:1994`, which guards the check with `if (sessionTokenLimit > 0)`, so `0` is treated the same as `-1` (unlimited) — in contrast to `model.maxToolCalls` (`>= 0` guard in `runBudget.ts`, where `0` disallows all calls). Updated the row to state that `0` is also treated as unlimited and called out the difference from `model.maxToolCalls`.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> | `model.sessionTokenLimit`                          | number  | Maximum prompt token count allowed per send in a session. `-1` means unlimited; `0` is also treated as unlimited (unlike `model.maxToolCalls`, where `0` disallows all calls). When exceeded, the current send is dropped (the session is not aborted).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `-1`        |

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** This wording makes `sessionTokenLimit` sound like a preflight cap for the prompt currently being submitted. In the interactive path, the gate reads the last recorded prompt count before dispatch; in the ACP path it uses the last/post-compression count. That means the prompt that first pushes usage over the limit can still be sent, and a later send is what gets dropped. Please clarify that this setting is based on the recorded prompt size rather than a guaranteed per-request preflight cap.

```suggestion
| `model.sessionTokenLimit`                          | number  | Maximum recorded prompt token count allowed before sending the next message. `-1` means unlimited; `0` is also treated as unlimited (unlike `model.maxToolCalls`, where `0` disallows all calls). When the recorded prompt count exceeds the limit, the next send is dropped (the session is not aborted).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `-1`        |
```

_— GPT-5 via Qwen Code /review_

Author: Good catch — done in 1ed2114. Verified against `packages/core/src/core/client.ts`: the gate reads `uiTelemetryService.getLastPromptTokenCount()` and compares it to the limit *before* dispatching the next message (guarded by `sessionTokenLimit > 0`), so it's based on the last recorded prompt count, not a per-send preflight cap — the prompt that first crosses the threshold can still be sent, and the next send is what gets dropped. Reworded the row to: "Maximum recorded prompt token count allowed before sending the next message. … When the recorded prompt count exceeds the limit, the next send is dropped (the session is not aborted)."

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

| ------------------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `security.folderTrust.enabled` | boolean | Setting to track whether Folder trust is enabled.                                                                                                           | `false`     |
| `security.auth.selectedType`   | string  | The currently selected authentication type.                                                                                                                 | `undefined` |
| `security.auth.enforcedType`   | string  | The required auth type (useful for enterprises).                                                                                                            | `undefined` |
| `security.auth.useExternal`    | boolean | Whether to use an external authentication flow.                                                                                                             | `undefined` |

> | `security.auth.apiKey`         | string  | **Deprecated.** API key for OpenAI-compatible authentication. Migrate to `modelProviders` with `envKey` instead — see [Model Providers](./model-providers). | `undefined` |

Author: The `**Deprecated.**` label here is intentional and consistent with the existing authoritative deprecation notice already in the repo docs at `docs/users/configuration/model-providers.md` (the "> **Deprecation of `security.auth.apiKey` and `security.auth.baseUrl`**" callout), which explicitly states these fields "will be fully removed in a future release" and recommends migrating to `modelProviders`. Softening to "legacy" in settings.md would make it inconsistent with that established notice, so I've kept the wording.

The schema-side gap you note (no `deprecated: true` marker in `settingsSchema.ts`, and the error messages still pointing at `security.auth.apiKey`) is a fair observation, but it's a code change that's out of scope for this docs-only PR — this PR documents an already-declared deprecation rather than introducing a new one. Filing/aligning the schema marker would be a good separate follow-up. Resolving here since no change to the docs is warranted.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> | `security.auth.apiKey`         | string  | **Deprecated** (slated for removal). API key for OpenAI-compatible authentication. Migrate to `modelProviders` with `envKey` instead — see [Model Providers](./model-providers). | `undefined` |

Author: Fixed in 036f597. Aligned the formatting with the existing deprecated entries in this file (`tools.core` / `tools.exclude` / `tools.allowed`, which use `**Deprecated.**` with a trailing period) and dropped the `(slated for removal)` qualifier, since — as you noted — `settingsSchema.ts` carries no removal marker on `security.auth.apiKey` / `security.auth.baseUrl`. The migration guidance pointing to `modelProviders` is unchanged.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
